[Blog] top 5 things for azure devs: static webapps (#490)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/top-5-things-for-azure-devs-static-websites/index.md

            var storageAccount = new Storage.StorageAccount("storageaccount", new Storage.StorageAccountArgs
            {
                Kind = Storage.Kind.StorageV2,
                ResourceGroupName = resourceGroup.Name,
                Sku = new Storage.Inputs.SkuArgs
                {
                    Name = Storage.SkuName.Standard_LRS,
                },
            });

    {{% /choosable %}}
    {{% choosable language "go" %}}

        pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
            resourceGroup, err := resources.NewResourceGroup(ctx, "website-rg", nil)
            if err != nil {
                return err
            }

            storageAccount, err := storage.NewStorageAccount(ctx, "sa", &storage.StorageAccountArgs{
                ResourceGroupName: resourceGroup.Name,
                Kind:              storage.KindStorageV2,
                Sku: &storage.SkuArgs{
                    Name: storage.SkuName_Standard_LRS,
                },
            })
            if err != nil {
                return err
            }

    {{% /choosable %}}
    {{% choosable language "python" %}}

>     resource_group = resources.ResourceGroup("resourceGroup")

Author: We use the same indentation in the our examples repo, using that to remain consistent

Static web apps can be built with popular frameworks that don't require server-side rendering, such as React, Angular, and Vue. Web applications typically include HTML, JavaScript, images, and CSS. In addition to these assets, you can create API endpoints hosted in an Azure Function.

The key thing to remember with SWAs is that you build the application from a repository.

Let's jump into Azure Static Web Apps!

### Build and deploy

We'll use Visual Studio Code's [Azure Static Web App Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) and a [Github](https://github.com/) account.

**Step 1**: Install the [Azure Web Static Web Apps](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) extension. Follow the instructions to authorize Visual Studio Code to access your Github account.

**Step 2**: Create a web application

> For convenience, we can use the Azure template for generating web applications. Click on this [link](https://github.com/staticwebdev/vanilla-basic/generate) to generate a basic React application.

Author: Agree!

![Generate app from template](./react-basic.png)

Clone the repository to your computer.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/spara/bookish-doodle.git
```

**Step 3**: Create a static web app with Visual Studio Code

Open your repository with Visual Studio Code and activate the [Azure extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/azure/extensions). On `APP SERVICE`item, click on the `+` to create a web app.

![Create web app](./static_web_app_vscode.png)

Follow the prompts:

- Create a unique name.

![Enter a name](./name.png)

- Select project structure.

![Select project structure](./react.png)

- Select application directory.

![Select project directory](./project_location.png)

- Select build directory.

![Select build directory](./build_directory.png)

> When the Visual Studio Code completes configuring your application, you will be prompted to deploy.

Reviewer: More of a suggestion; folks searching for `VS Code` will get this page as a search result.

```suggestion
When VS Code completes configuring your application, you will be prompted to deploy.
```

![Deploy](./deploy_swa.png)

You can view the application in the browser.

**Step 3**: Change the code

> Edit `./src/app.js` and change *World* to *Cloud Engineers.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit `./src/app.js` and change *World* to *Cloud Engineers*.
```

```javascript
function App() {
  const value = 'Cloud Engineers';
  return <div>Hello {value}</div>;
}
```

> Add, commit, and push your changes to Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub.
```

```bash
$ git add .
$ git commit -m 'changed message'
$ git push
```

> Click on the Github Actions tab of your repository to see the workflows. Click on the `changed message`, then click on `Build and Deploy Job`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the **Actions** tab of your repository to see the workflows. Select the **changed message**, and then select **Build and Deploy Job**.
```

![Commit](./changed_message.png)

![Build and Deploy Job](./build_and_deploy_job.png)

> To see the details of the deployment, click on `Build and Deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the details of the deployment, select **Build and Deploy**.
```

![Results](./results.png)

> So what happened here? First, we used the Azure Static Web Apps for Visual Studio Code to authorize access to Github. Next, we created a deployment using the extension, created a Github Actions workflow, and deployed the application. We edited the code and pushed it to the repository. The push triggered the Github Action, rebuilt, and deployed the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what happened here? First, we used the Azure Static Web Apps for Visual Studio Code to authorize access to GitHub. Next, we created a deployment using the extension, created a GitHub Actions workflow, and deployed the application. We edited the code and pushed it to the repository. The push triggered the GitHub Action, rebuilt, and deployed the application.
```

> The Azure Static Web Apps service lets you create a complete devops workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Static Web Apps service lets you create a complete DevOps workflow.
```

### Build and deploy with code and Pulumi

> Can we create a complete devops workflow with code? Of course, we can! The Pulumi Azure Native provider uses the same API as the Visual Studio. In the example below, we can duplicate the process without using an extension or the Azure CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can we create a complete DevOps workflow with code? Of course, we can! The Pulumi Azure Native provider uses the same API as VS Code. In the example below, we can duplicate the process without using an extension or the Azure CLI.
```

```typescript
import pulumi
import pulumi_azure_native as azure_native

static_site = azure_native.web.StaticSite("staticSite",
    branch="master",
    build_properties=azure_native.web.StaticSiteBuildPropertiesArgs(
        api_location="api",
        app_artifact_location="build",
        app_location="app",
    ),
    location="West US 2",
    name="testStaticSite0",
    repository_token="repoToken123",
    repository_url="https://github.com/username/RepoName",
    resource_group_name="rg",
    sku=azure_native.web.SkuDescriptionArgs(
        name="Basic",
        tier="Basic",
    ))
```

> In the example above, creating a static web app requires configuring the same parameters we used in the Visual Studio Code example. The difference is that we create a Pulumi Project with our application at the root of the project directory in a folder called `app`. Once the static web app stack is created, you can push changes and trigger a deployment. One of the advantages of using infrastructure as code is that you can use the development environment and toolchain that you prefer. You are not bound to using a specific extension or development environment. We can be productive with our toolchain and create a complete deployment workflow with Github Actions with cloud engineering and Azure Static Web Apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, creating a static web app requires configuring the same parameters we used in the Visual Studio Code example. The difference is that we create a Pulumi Project with our application at the root of the project directory in a folder called `app`. Once the static web app stack is created, you can push changes and trigger a deployment. One of the advantages of using infrastructure as code is that you can use the development environment and toolchain that you prefer. You are not bound to using a specific extension or development environment. We can be productive with our toolchain and create a complete deployment workflow using GitHub Actions with cloud engineering and Azure Static Web Apps.
```

## Summary

> This article demonstrates two ways to build static websites with Azure. The first way is to use Azure storage to deploy the website. We showed how to use the Azure Portal and infrastructure as code to deploy. The other way to deploy a static website is to use the Azure Static Web Apps Service. We used the Visual Studio Code extension to configure Github Actions to deploy the React application in this example. We demonstrated how to deploy using code because the Pulumi Azure Native provider uses the Azure API. Infrastructure as code lets us choose our development environment where we are productive. In the next installment of this series, we’ll tackle deploying Kubernetes. In the next installment of this series, we'll tackle deploying Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article demonstrates two ways to build static websites with Azure. The first way is to use Azure Storage to deploy the website. We showed how to use the Azure Portal and infrastructure as code to deploy. The other way to deploy a static website is to use the Azure Static Web Apps Service. We used the Visual Studio Code extension to configure GitHub Actions to deploy the React application in this example. We demonstrated how to deploy using code because the Pulumi Azure Native provider uses the Azure API. Infrastructure as code lets us choose our development environment where we are productive. In the next installment of this series, we’ll tackle deploying Kubernetes.
```
